# Copyright (c) 2015, Christian Lindig <lindig@gmail.com>
# All rights reserved.
#
# Unix manual page for ago in Perl POD format. Use pod2man(1) to translate
# this document to troff format suitable for manual pages.
# 

=head1 NAME

ago - compute number of days between two calendar dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ago> I<yyyy-mm-dd> [I<yyyy-mm-dd>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ago> computes the difference in days between two calendar dates provided
as arguments. If just one date is given, the current date is taken as the
second one.  B<ago> emits the result to standard output.

The difference in days is negative if the first date is before the second
date (or the current date, if no second date is given). Conversely, if the
first date is after the second, the difference is positive.

=head1 DATE FORMAT

A date can be given in the following formats:

=over 4

=item I<yyyy-mm-dd> as in C<2014-12-28>

Day and month must be designated by two digits.

=item I<dd.mm.yyyy> as in C<28.12.2014> or C<3.1.2010>

Day and month may be designate by one or two digits.

=item C<today> or C<now>.

This designates the current local date.

=item C<epoch>

The C<epoch> designates January 1st, 1 (0001-01-01). This can be useful for
enumerating dates.

=back

=head1 EXIT CODE AND DIAGNOSTICS

The exit code is zero for success and positive in the case of errors. Error
messages are emitted to standard error.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

The date must range between 0001-01-01 and 9999-12-31. The Gregorian
calendar was introduced 1582 and hence dates prior to its introduction are
an extrapolation.

=head1 SEE ALSO

date(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Lindig <lindig@gmail.com>. The source code is
available from L<http://github.com/lindig/ocaml-ago>.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is licensed under the BSD-2 Open Source
License.

