# Copyright (c) 2015, Christian Lindig <lindig@gmail.com>
# All rights reserved.
#
# Unix manual page for ago(1) in Perl POD format. Use pod2man(1) to
# translate this document to troff format suitable for manual pages.
# 

=head1 NAME

ascii85enc - encode file in ASCII85 encoding

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ascii85enc> [-ps | -p I<prefix>] [I<file>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ascii85enc> reads input from I<file> or from standard input (if no
I<file> given) and emits its Ascii85 encoding to standard output. The
output is by default prefixed with C<< <~ >>.  The end of the encoding is
signaled by C<< ~> >>, as it is demanded by the standard. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -p I<prefix>

Use I<prefix> instead of the default C<< <~ >> as a prefix.

=item -ps

Use as a prefix the following PostScript operators:

    currentfile /ASCII85Decode filter cvx exec

This sequence instructs a PostScript interpreter to decode the following 
stream and to execute as a PostScript program. This assumes that the input,
and hence the decoded output, contains PostScript code.

=back

=head1 EXIT CODE AND DIAGNOSTICS

The exit code is zero for success and positive in the case of errors. Error
messages are emitted to standard error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Adobe _PostScript LANGUAGE REFERENCE third edition_.  For the details of
the format, see sections _ASCII Base-85 Strings_ and _ASCII85Encode
Filter_.

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Lindig <lindig@gmail.com>. The source code is
available from L<http://github.com/lindig/ascii85>.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is licensed under the BSD-2 Open Source License.

